In the previous video, we already create a
device list menu. Now in this video, we are
going to create a Configure menu. This menu
will be used to configuring the router
Okay let’s just start. Open the visual studio
code. First let’s create a new url,
here I create configure url.
This url will be redirected to configure function inside views.py.
Now let’s create configure function in views.py.
I will copy and paste the script from my note
and I will explain to you what the script
means.
Okay we have a long script here. Before I
explain about this script, let’s create
the template file first. In this case, the
name of the template file is config.html.
I already upload config.html file in the resource
section. So you can just download it and put it
in the templates directory.
Now let’s open the browser and navigate
to 127.0.0.1:8000/configure.
Here we can see the configure menu. We can chose which device that we want to configure.
Here we can put mikrotik command, and here we can put cisco command. When we click this submit button,
the application will send the command that we put here to the devices.
Okay now let’s understand config.html file
first.
Here we define a looping to devices, this
is a variable from the context. If we see
in views.py, we have devices in the context.
Let’s back to config.html.
Here we can see
a input check box, the value will be the id
of each device. This choice will display the
ip address and vendor of each devices.
Next we have text area for Mikrotik & cisco
command
Last, we have a submit button here.
Now let’s understand configure function
in the views.py file. Here we can see an if
statement. If the method of the request is
post, this block script will be executed.
The method of the request will be post if
we click the submit button like this.
But if we access the page directly from the url,
the method of the request is get.
If the method of the request is get, this
block script will be executed. First we get
all devices here, and then put all devices
to the context. Last, we return a template file here.
But if the method of the request is post,
First we get list device, This device is the
name of device choice in the template file.
Here we can see that the name is device.
Later, the device that we select in the browser,
will be saved to selected_device_id variable.
Next, we define mikrotik_command here. This
mikrotik_command is the name of text area
in the template file.
And also we have a cisco command here.
Next we looping to selected_device_id and
then we get the device from the database based
on the device id.
Here we can see that we use get_object_or_404
function, so we need to import it first.
Then here we call SSHClient function from
paramiko. Because we use paramiko here, so
we also need to import paramiko
Here we connect to the router. We have a condition
here, if the vendor of the device is cisco,
We do invoke shell and then send configure
terminal command. Here we looping to cisco_command,
which is the variable that we have defined
before. Here we send the command to the cisco device.
Don’t forget to use time sleep if
we doing network automation on cisco device
using paramiko.
Else, means that the device is not cisco,
which is mikrotik, we looping to mikrotik_command
and send the command to the device using exec_command. We don’t need to invoke shell & time sleep here.
Last, when the configuration is done, we will
be redirected to home page. Here we use redirect
function, so we need to import it first.
Let’s go to the browser, and refresh.
Okay here we don’t have any error.
We will not test the configuration function now, we will
do the test later in the next video
and this is the end of this video. In the next video,
we are going to create a verify configuration menu.
Thankyou for watching and see you on
the next video!